helm/splattop/README.md, before:

# SplatTop Helm Chart

This Helm chart deploys the SplatTop application - a Splatoon 3 competitive tracking platform.

## Components

This chart deploys the following components:

- **FastAPI Backend**: REST API and WebSocket server
- **React Frontend**: Web UI served by Nginx
- **Celery Worker**: Background task processing
- **Celery Beat**: Scheduled task scheduler
- **Redis**: Cache and message broker
- **SplatNLP**: ML inference service
- **Ingress Controller**: (Optional) Bundled NGINX controller for local/dev clusters
- **Ingress**: (Optional) Route external traffic to services
- **Prometheus**: (Optional) Metrics collection and monitoring
- **Grafana**: (Optional) Metrics visualization and dashboards
- **AlertManager**: (Optional) Alert routing and management

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.19+
- Helm 3.0+ (or ArgoCD for GitOps deployment)
- A Kubernetes secret named `db-secrets` containing database credentials (or customize via `global.databaseSecretName`)
- Image pull secrets configured as `regcred` (or customize via `global.imagePullSecrets`)
- (Optional) Nginx Ingress Controller for ingress support (now bundled for dev via `ingressController.enabled`)
- (Optional) cert-manager for TLS certificate management
- (Optional) ArgoCD for GitOps continuous delivery (see `/argocd/README.md`)

## Deployment Methods

SplatTop can be deployed using two methods:

1. **Direct Helm Installation** (below) - Manual deployment using Helm CLI
2. **ArgoCD GitOps** - Automated deployment via ArgoCD (recommended for production)
   - See [ArgoCD documentation](/argocd/README.md) for GitOps setup
   - Supports multi-environment deployments
   - Automated sync with self-healing

## Installing the Chart

### Development Installation

Install with default development values:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop
```

Or with a custom release name:

```bash
helm install my-splattop ./helm/splattop
```

For local kind clusters, use the provided overrides that point the workloads at
locally built images (after `make build` loads them into kind):

```bash
helm upgrade --install splattop-dev ./helm/splattop \
  -n splattop-dev \
  -f ./helm/splattop/values-local.yaml
```

The local overrides disable SplatNLP (to avoid large model downloads), switch all
images to the locally built tags, enable the bundled `ingress-nginx` controller,
and recreate the legacy `fast-api-app-service` and `redis` service names so the
containers can reach each other without changing their baked-in configuration.

### Production Installation

Install with production overrides:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop -f ./helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
```

### Custom Namespace

Install in a specific namespace:

```bash
kubectl create namespace splattop
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop -n splattop
```

## Upgrading the Chart

```bash
helm upgrade splattop ./helm/splattop -f ./helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
```

## Uninstalling the Chart

```bash
helm uninstall splattop
```

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters and their default values.

### Global Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `global.environment` | Environment name (development/production) | `development` |
| `global.imagePullSecrets` | List of image pull secret names | `[regcred]` |
| `global.databaseSecretName` | Name of Kubernetes secret containing database credentials | `db-secrets` |

### FastAPI Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `fastapi.enabled` | Enable FastAPI deployment | `true` |
| `fastapi.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` (dev), `2` (prod) |
| `fastapi.image.repository` | Image repository | `registry.digitalocean.com/sendouq/fast-api` |
| `fastapi.image.tag` | Image tag | `latest` |
| `fastapi.service.port` | HTTP service port | `8000` |
| `fastapi.service.websocketPort` | WebSocket service port | `8001` |
| `fastapi.service.extraServices` | Additional Service objects for compatibility (name/type/ports) | `[]` |
| `fastapi.env.COMP_LEADERBOARD_ENABLED` | Enable competition leaderboard | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |

### React Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `react.enabled` | Enable React deployment | `true` |
| `react.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` (dev), `2` (prod) |
| `react.image.repository` | Image repository | `registry.digitalocean.com/sendouq/react` |
| `react.image.tag` | Image tag | `latest` |
| `react.service.port` | Service port | `80` |
| `react.service.extraServices` | Additional Service objects for compatibility | `[]` |

### Celery Worker Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `celeryWorker.enabled` | Enable Celery worker deployment | `true` |
| `celeryWorker.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `celeryWorker.image.repository` | Image repository | `registry.digitalocean.com/sendouq/celery` |

### Celery Beat Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `celeryBeat.enabled` | Enable Celery beat deployment | `true` |
| `celeryBeat.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `celeryBeat.resources.requests.memory` | Memory request | `32Mi` |
| `celeryBeat.resources.limits.memory` | Memory limit | `64Mi` |

### Redis Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `redis.enabled` | Enable Redis deployment | `true` |
| `redis.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `redis.image.repository` | Image repository | `redis` |
| `redis.service.port` | Service port | `6379` |
| `redis.service.extraServices` | Additional Service objects for compatibility | `[]` |

### SplatNLP Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `splatnlp.enabled` | Enable SplatNLP deployment | `true` |
| `splatnlp.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `splatnlp.service.port` | Service port | `9000` |

### Ingress Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `ingress.enabled` | Enable ingress | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `ingress.className` | Ingress class name | `nginx` |
| `ingress.tls.enabled` | Enable TLS | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `ingress.tls.secretName` | TLS secret name | `tls-secret` |

### Ingress Controller Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `ingressController.enabled` | Deploy the bundled `ingress-nginx` controller manifest | `false` (dev), `true` in `values-local.yaml` |
| `ingressController.manifestPath` | Path (under `helm/splattop/files/`) to render for the controller | `ingress-nginx/controller-v1.0.0.yaml` |

### Monitoring Configuration

#### Prometheus

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `monitoring.prometheus.enabled` | Enable Prometheus | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `monitoring.prometheus.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.image.tag` | Image tag | `v2.52.0` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.service.port` | Service port | `9090` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.configMapName` | ConfigMap containing `prometheus.yml` | `prometheus-config` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.retention` | Data retention period | `15d` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.persistence.enabled` | Enable persistent storage | `true` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.persistence.size` | Storage size | `20Gi` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.rules.enabled` | Mount alerting rules ConfigMap | `false` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.rules.configMapName` | ConfigMap containing alerting rules | `prometheus-rules` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.requests.cpu` | CPU request | `250m` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.requests.memory` | Memory request | `512Mi` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.limits.cpu` | CPU limit | `1` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.limits.memory` | Memory limit | `2Gi` |

#### Grafana

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `monitoring.grafana.enabled` | Enable Grafana | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `monitoring.grafana.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `monitoring.grafana.image.tag` | Image tag | `10.4.3` |
| `monitoring.grafana.service.port` | Service port | `80` |
| `monitoring.grafana.serverDomain` | Server domain | `""` (dev), `grafana.splat.top` (prod) |
| `monitoring.grafana.adminCredentialsSecret` | Admin credentials secret | `grafana-admin-credentials` |
| `monitoring.grafana.datasourcesConfigMapName` | ConfigMap for datasource provisioning | `grafana-datasources` |
| `monitoring.grafana.dashboardProvidersConfigMapName` | ConfigMap for dashboard providers | `grafana-dashboard-providers` |
| `monitoring.grafana.persistence.enabled` | Enable persistent storage | `true` |
| `monitoring.grafana.persistence.size` | Storage size | `5Gi` |
| `monitoring.grafana.dashboards` | List of dashboards to mount (`name`, optional `configMapName`) | `[]` (dev), see values-prod.yaml |

#### AlertManager

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `monitoring.alertmanager.enabled` | Enable AlertManager | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.image.tag` | Image tag | `v0.27.0` |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.service.port` | Service port | `9093` |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.configSecret` | Config secret name | `alertmanager-config` |

## Required Secrets

Before deploying, create a Kubernetes secret with database credentials:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic db-secrets \
  --from-literal=DB_HOST=your-db-host \
  --from-literal=DB_USER=your-db-user \
  --from-literal=DB_PASSWORD=your-db-password \
  --from-literal=DB_NAME=your-db-name \
  --from-literal=DB_PORT=5432 \
  --from-literal=RANKINGS_DB_NAME=your-rankings-db \
  --from-literal=RANKINGS_DB_SCHEMA=your-schema \
  --from-literal=API_TOKEN_PEPPER=your-api-pepper \
  --from-literal=ADMIN_TOKEN_PEPPER=your-admin-pepper \
  --from-literal=ADMIN_API_TOKENS_HASHED=your-hashed-tokens \
  --from-literal=DO_SPACES_ML_ENDPOINT=your-spaces-endpoint \
  --from-literal=DO_SPACES_ML_DIR=your-spaces-dir
```

You can also use the template from `/k8s/secrets.template` as a reference.

### Monitoring Secrets (if monitoring is enabled)

If you enable the monitoring stack, you'll need to create additional secrets:

**Grafana Admin Credentials:**
```bash
kubectl create secret generic grafana-admin-credentials \
  --from-literal=admin-user=admin \
  --from-literal=admin-password=your-secure-password
```

**AlertManager Configuration:**
```bash
kubectl create secret generic alertmanager-config \
  --from-file=alertmanager.yaml=/path/to/alertmanager-config.yaml
```

**Prometheus Configuration (if not using default):**

You'll need to create ConfigMaps for:
- `prometheus-config` - Main Prometheus configuration
- `prometheus-rules` - Prometheus alerting rules (optional)
- `grafana-datasources` - Grafana datasource configuration
- `grafana-dashboard-providers` - Grafana dashboard provider configuration
- Dashboard ConfigMaps (e.g., `grafana-dashboard-core`, `grafana-dashboard-splatgpt`, etc.)

If you already maintain these under different names, point the chart at them via
`monitoring.prometheus.configMapName`, `monitoring.prometheus.rules.configMapName`,
`monitoring.grafana.datasourcesConfigMapName`, and `monitoring.grafana.dashboardProvidersConfigMapName`
(each dashboard entry also accepts an optional `configMapName` override).

See the existing configurations in `/k8s/monitoring/` for reference templates.

## Examples

### Custom Values File

Create a `custom-values.yaml`:

```yaml
global:
  environment: staging

fastapi:
  replicas: 2
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "512Mi"
      cpu: "250m"
    limits:
      memory: "1Gi"
      cpu: "500m"

ingress:
  enabled: true
  hosts:
    - host: staging.splat.top
      paths:
        - path: /api
          pathType: Prefix
          serviceName: fastapi
          servicePort: 8000
        - path: /
          pathType: Prefix
          serviceName: react
          servicePort: 80
```

Install with custom values:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop -f custom-values.yaml
```

### Disable Components

To disable specific components:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop \
  --set splatnlp.enabled=false \
  --set celeryBeat.enabled=false
```

## Validation

### Dry Run

Test the installation without actually deploying:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop --dry-run --debug
```

### Template Rendering

View the rendered templates:

```bash
helm template splattop ./helm/splattop -f ./helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
```

### Lint Chart

Validate the chart for issues:

```bash
helm lint ./helm/splattop
```

## Troubleshooting

### Check Deployment Status

```bash
helm status splattop
kubectl get pods
kubectl get services
```

### View Logs

```bash
# FastAPI logs
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=fastapi

# React logs
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=react

# Celery worker logs
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=celery-worker
```

### Common Issues

1. **Image Pull Errors**: Ensure `regcred` secret exists with correct registry credentials
2. **Database Connection Errors**: Verify `db-secrets` contains correct database credentials
3. **Ingress Not Working**: Ensure nginx-ingress-controller is installed and running

## Development

### Project Structure

```
helm/splattop/
├── Chart.yaml              # Chart metadata
├── values.yaml             # Default values (development)
├── values-prod.yaml        # Production overrides
├── templates/              # Kubernetes manifests
│   ├── _helpers.tpl        # Template helpers
│   ├── fastapi-deployment.yaml
│   ├── fastapi-service.yaml
│   ├── react-deployment.yaml
│   ├── react-service.yaml
│   ├── celery-worker-deployment.yaml
│   ├── celery-worker-service.yaml
│   ├── celery-beat-deployment.yaml
│   ├── redis-deployment.yaml
│   ├── redis-service.yaml
│   ├── splatnlp-deployment.yaml
│   ├── splatnlp-service.yaml
│   ├── ingress.yaml
│   └── certificate.yaml
└── README.md               # This file
```

## GitOps Deployment with ArgoCD

For production environments, we recommend using ArgoCD for GitOps-based deployment:

### Why ArgoCD?

- **Declarative GitOps**: Git as the single source of truth
- **Automated Sync**: Automatic deployment of changes from Git
- **Self-Healing**: Automatically corrects drift from desired state
- **Multi-Environment**: Manage dev, staging, and production from one place
- **Rollback**: Easy rollback to previous versions
- **RBAC**: Fine-grained access control per environment

### Quick Start

1. **Install ArgoCD** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   kubectl create namespace argocd
   kubectl apply -n argocd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-cd/stable/manifests/install.yaml
   ```

2. **Deploy SplatTop Project**:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f argocd/projects/splattop-project.yaml
   ```

3. **Deploy Application** (choose one):
   ```bash
   # Single environment
   kubectl apply -f argocd/applications/splattop-prod.yaml

   # Or use ApplicationSet for all environments
   kubectl apply -f argocd/applications/splattop-applicationset.yaml
   ```

4. **Access ArgoCD UI**:
   ```bash
   kubectl port-forward svc/argocd-server -n argocd 8080:443
   # Get password: kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
   ```

For complete ArgoCD setup and usage, see [ArgoCD Documentation](/argocd/README.md).

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub: https://github.com/cesaregarza/SplatTop
- Website: https://splat.top

Commit message:

Refactor README and ArgoCD configurations for clarity and focus on production deployment. Removed development and staging references, updated sync policies, and streamlined documentation. Deleted unused ApplicationSet and development application manifests. Enhanced RBAC roles and project descriptions to reflect current state.

helm/splattop/README.md, after:

# SplatTop Helm Chart

This Helm chart deploys the SplatTop application - a Splatoon 3 competitive tracking platform.

## Components

This chart deploys the following components:

- **FastAPI Backend**: REST API and WebSocket server
- **React Frontend**: Web UI served by Nginx
- **Celery Worker**: Background task processing
- **Celery Beat**: Scheduled task scheduler
- **Redis**: Cache and message broker
- **SplatNLP**: ML inference service
- **Ingress Controller**: (Optional) Bundled NGINX controller for local/dev clusters
- **Ingress**: (Optional) Route external traffic to services
- **Prometheus**: (Optional) Metrics collection and monitoring
- **Grafana**: (Optional) Metrics visualization and dashboards
- **AlertManager**: (Optional) Alert routing and management

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.19+
- Helm 3.0+ (or ArgoCD for GitOps deployment)
- A Kubernetes secret named `db-secrets` containing database credentials (or customize via `global.databaseSecretName`)
- Image pull secrets configured as `regcred` (or customize via `global.imagePullSecrets`)
- (Optional) Nginx Ingress Controller for ingress support (now bundled for dev via `ingressController.enabled`)
- (Optional) cert-manager for TLS certificate management
- (Optional) ArgoCD for GitOps continuous delivery (see `/argocd/README.md`)

## Deployment Methods

SplatTop can be deployed using two methods:

1. **Direct Helm Installation** (below) - Manual deployment using Helm CLI
2. **ArgoCD GitOps** - Automated deployment via ArgoCD (recommended for production)
   - See [ArgoCD documentation](/argocd/README.md) for GitOps setup
   - Supports multi-environment deployments
   - Automated sync with self-healing

## Installing the Chart

### Development Installation

Install with default development values:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop
```

Or with a custom release name:

```bash
helm install my-splattop ./helm/splattop
```

For local kind clusters, use the provided overrides that point the workloads at
locally built images (after `make build` loads them into kind):

```bash
helm upgrade --install splattop-dev ./helm/splattop \
  -n splattop-dev \
  -f ./helm/splattop/values-local.yaml
```

The local overrides disable SplatNLP (to avoid large model downloads), switch all
images to the locally built tags, enable the bundled `ingress-nginx` controller,
and recreate the legacy `fast-api-app-service` and `redis` service names so the
containers can reach each other without changing their baked-in configuration.

### Production Installation

Install with production overrides:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop -f ./helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
```

### Custom Namespace

Install in a specific namespace:

```bash
kubectl create namespace splattop
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop -n splattop
```

## Upgrading the Chart

```bash
helm upgrade splattop ./helm/splattop -f ./helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
```

## Uninstalling the Chart

```bash
helm uninstall splattop
```

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters and their default values.

### Global Parameters

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `global.environment` | Environment name (development/production) | `development` |
| `global.imagePullSecrets` | List of image pull secret names | `[regcred]` |
| `global.databaseSecretName` | Name of Kubernetes secret containing database credentials | `db-secrets` |

### FastAPI Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `fastapi.enabled` | Enable FastAPI deployment | `true` |
| `fastapi.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` (dev), `2` (prod) |
| `fastapi.image.repository` | Image repository | `registry.digitalocean.com/sendouq/fast-api` |
| `fastapi.image.tag` | Image tag | `latest` |
| `fastapi.service.port` | HTTP service port | `8000` |
| `fastapi.service.websocketPort` | WebSocket service port | `8001` |
| `fastapi.service.extraServices` | Additional Service objects for compatibility (name/type/ports) | `[]` |
| `fastapi.env.COMP_LEADERBOARD_ENABLED` | Enable competition leaderboard | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |

### React Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `react.enabled` | Enable React deployment | `true` |
| `react.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` (dev), `2` (prod) |
| `react.image.repository` | Image repository | `registry.digitalocean.com/sendouq/react` |
| `react.image.tag` | Image tag | `latest` |
| `react.service.port` | Service port | `80` |
| `react.service.extraServices` | Additional Service objects for compatibility | `[]` |

### Celery Worker Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `celeryWorker.enabled` | Enable Celery worker deployment | `true` |
| `celeryWorker.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `celeryWorker.image.repository` | Image repository | `registry.digitalocean.com/sendouq/celery` |

### Celery Beat Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `celeryBeat.enabled` | Enable Celery beat deployment | `true` |
| `celeryBeat.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `celeryBeat.resources.requests.memory` | Memory request | `32Mi` |
| `celeryBeat.resources.limits.memory` | Memory limit | `64Mi` |

### Redis Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `redis.enabled` | Enable Redis deployment | `true` |
| `redis.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `redis.image.repository` | Image repository | `redis` |
| `redis.service.port` | Service port | `6379` |
| `redis.service.extraServices` | Additional Service objects for compatibility | `[]` |

### SplatNLP Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `splatnlp.enabled` | Enable SplatNLP deployment | `true` |
| `splatnlp.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `splatnlp.service.port` | Service port | `9000` |

### Ingress Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `ingress.enabled` | Enable ingress | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `ingress.className` | Ingress class name | `nginx` |
| `ingress.tls.enabled` | Enable TLS | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `ingress.tls.secretName` | TLS secret name | `tls-secret` |

### Ingress Controller Configuration

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `ingressController.enabled` | Deploy the bundled `ingress-nginx` controller manifest | `false` (dev), `true` in `values-local.yaml` |
| `ingressController.manifestPath` | Path (under `helm/splattop/files/`) to render for the controller | `ingress-nginx/controller-v1.0.0.yaml` |

### Monitoring Configuration

#### Prometheus

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `monitoring.prometheus.enabled` | Enable Prometheus | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `monitoring.prometheus.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.image.tag` | Image tag | `v2.52.0` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.service.port` | Service port | `9090` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.configMapName` | ConfigMap containing `prometheus.yml` | `prometheus-config` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.retention` | Data retention period | `15d` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.persistence.enabled` | Enable persistent storage | `true` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.persistence.size` | Storage size | `20Gi` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.rules.enabled` | Mount alerting rules ConfigMap | `false` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.rules.configMapName` | ConfigMap containing alerting rules | `prometheus-rules` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.requests.cpu` | CPU request | `250m` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.requests.memory` | Memory request | `512Mi` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.limits.cpu` | CPU limit | `1` |
| `monitoring.prometheus.resources.limits.memory` | Memory limit | `2Gi` |

#### Grafana

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `monitoring.grafana.enabled` | Enable Grafana | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `monitoring.grafana.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `monitoring.grafana.image.tag` | Image tag | `10.4.3` |
| `monitoring.grafana.service.port` | Service port | `80` |
| `monitoring.grafana.serverDomain` | Server domain | `""` (dev), `grafana.splat.top` (prod) |
| `monitoring.grafana.adminCredentialsSecret` | Admin credentials secret | `grafana-admin-credentials` |
| `monitoring.grafana.datasourcesConfigMapName` | ConfigMap for datasource provisioning | `grafana-datasources` |
| `monitoring.grafana.dashboardProvidersConfigMapName` | ConfigMap for dashboard providers | `grafana-dashboard-providers` |
| `monitoring.grafana.persistence.enabled` | Enable persistent storage | `true` |
| `monitoring.grafana.persistence.size` | Storage size | `5Gi` |
| `monitoring.grafana.dashboards` | List of dashboards to mount (`name`, optional `configMapName`) | `[]` (dev), see values-prod.yaml |

#### AlertManager

| Parameter | Description | Default |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `monitoring.alertmanager.enabled` | Enable AlertManager | `false` (dev), `true` (prod) |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.replicas` | Number of replicas | `1` |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.image.tag` | Image tag | `v0.27.0` |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.service.port` | Service port | `9093` |
| `monitoring.alertmanager.configSecret` | Config secret name | `alertmanager-config` |

## Required Secrets

Before deploying, create a Kubernetes secret with database credentials:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic db-secrets \
  --from-literal=DB_HOST=your-db-host \
  --from-literal=DB_USER=your-db-user \
  --from-literal=DB_PASSWORD=your-db-password \
  --from-literal=DB_NAME=your-db-name \
  --from-literal=DB_PORT=5432 \
  --from-literal=RANKINGS_DB_NAME=your-rankings-db \
  --from-literal=RANKINGS_DB_SCHEMA=your-schema \
  --from-literal=API_TOKEN_PEPPER=your-api-pepper \
  --from-literal=ADMIN_TOKEN_PEPPER=your-admin-pepper \
  --from-literal=ADMIN_API_TOKENS_HASHED=your-hashed-tokens \
  --from-literal=DO_SPACES_ML_ENDPOINT=your-spaces-endpoint \
  --from-literal=DO_SPACES_ML_DIR=your-spaces-dir
```

You can also use the template from `/k8s/secrets.template` as a reference.

### Monitoring Secrets (if monitoring is enabled)

If you enable the monitoring stack, you'll need to create additional secrets:

**Grafana Admin Credentials:**
```bash
kubectl create secret generic grafana-admin-credentials \
  --from-literal=admin-user=admin \
  --from-literal=admin-password=your-secure-password
```

**AlertManager Configuration:**
```bash
kubectl create secret generic alertmanager-config \
  --from-file=alertmanager.yaml=/path/to/alertmanager-config.yaml
```

**Prometheus Configuration (if not using default):**

You'll need to create ConfigMaps for:
- `prometheus-config` - Main Prometheus configuration
- `prometheus-rules` - Prometheus alerting rules (optional)
- `grafana-datasources` - Grafana datasource configuration
- `grafana-dashboard-providers` - Grafana dashboard provider configuration
- Dashboard ConfigMaps (e.g., `grafana-dashboard-core`, `grafana-dashboard-splatgpt`, etc.)

If you already maintain these under different names, point the chart at them via
`monitoring.prometheus.configMapName`, `monitoring.prometheus.rules.configMapName`,
`monitoring.grafana.datasourcesConfigMapName`, and `monitoring.grafana.dashboardProvidersConfigMapName`
(each dashboard entry also accepts an optional `configMapName` override).

See the existing configurations in `/k8s/monitoring/` for reference templates.

## Examples

### Custom Values File

Create a `custom-values.yaml`:

```yaml
global:
  environment: staging

fastapi:
  replicas: 2
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "512Mi"
      cpu: "250m"
    limits:
      memory: "1Gi"
      cpu: "500m"

ingress:
  enabled: true
  hosts:
    - host: staging.splat.top
      paths:
        - path: /api
          pathType: Prefix
          serviceName: fastapi
          servicePort: 8000
        - path: /
          pathType: Prefix
          serviceName: react
          servicePort: 80
```

Install with custom values:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop -f custom-values.yaml
```

### Disable Components

To disable specific components:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop \
  --set splatnlp.enabled=false \
  --set celeryBeat.enabled=false
```

## Validation

### Dry Run

Test the installation without actually deploying:

```bash
helm install splattop ./helm/splattop --dry-run --debug
```

### Template Rendering

View the rendered templates:

```bash
helm template splattop ./helm/splattop -f ./helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
```

### Lint Chart

Validate the chart for issues:

```bash
helm lint ./helm/splattop
```

## Troubleshooting

### Check Deployment Status

```bash
helm status splattop
kubectl get pods
kubectl get services
```

### View Logs

```bash
# FastAPI logs
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=fastapi

# React logs
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=react

# Celery worker logs
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=celery-worker
```

### Common Issues

1. **Image Pull Errors**: Ensure `regcred` secret exists with correct registry credentials
2. **Database Connection Errors**: Verify `db-secrets` contains correct database credentials
3. **Ingress Not Working**: Ensure nginx-ingress-controller is installed and running

## Development

### Project Structure

```
helm/splattop/
├── Chart.yaml              # Chart metadata
├── values.yaml             # Default values (development)
├── values-prod.yaml        # Production overrides
├── templates/              # Kubernetes manifests
│   ├── _helpers.tpl        # Template helpers
│   ├── fastapi-deployment.yaml
│   ├── fastapi-service.yaml
│   ├── react-deployment.yaml
│   ├── react-service.yaml
│   ├── celery-worker-deployment.yaml
│   ├── celery-worker-service.yaml
│   ├── celery-beat-deployment.yaml
│   ├── redis-deployment.yaml
│   ├── redis-service.yaml
│   ├── splatnlp-deployment.yaml
│   ├── splatnlp-service.yaml
│   ├── ingress.yaml
│   └── certificate.yaml
└── README.md               # This file
```

## GitOps Deployment with ArgoCD

For production environments, we recommend using ArgoCD for GitOps-based deployment:

### Why ArgoCD?

- **Declarative GitOps**: Git as the single source of truth
- **Automated Sync**: Automatic deployment of changes from Git
- **Self-Healing**: Automatically detects and surfaces drift from desired state
- **Production Guardrails**: Manual syncs, RBAC, and sync windows for live traffic
- **Rollback**: Easy rollback to previous versions
- **RBAC**: Fine-grained access control per environment

### Quick Start

1. **Install ArgoCD** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   kubectl create namespace argocd
   kubectl apply -n argocd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-cd/stable/manifests/install.yaml
   ```

2. **Deploy SplatTop Project**:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f argocd/projects/splattop-project.yaml
   ```

3. **Deploy Application**:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f argocd/applications/splattop-prod.yaml
   ```

4. **Access ArgoCD UI**:
   ```bash
   kubectl port-forward svc/argocd-server -n argocd 8080:443
   # Get password: kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
   ```

For complete ArgoCD setup and usage, see [ArgoCD Documentation](/argocd/README.md).

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub: https://github.com/cesaregarza/SplatTop
- Website: https://splat.top
