docs/developer-cheat-sheet.md, before:

# Developer Cheat Sheet

Quick reference for engineers touching the config repo after the split.

## Cloning & Layout

```bash
git clone git@github.com:SplatTop/SplatTop.git
git clone git@github.com:SplatTop/SplatTopConfig.git
tree -L 1 SplatTopConfig
```

- `helm/` – charts per service (api, react, celery, monitoring).
- `argocd/` – Applications, AppProjects.
- `k8s/` – legacy manifests (gradually retired or converted to Helm values) plus encrypted secrets (`*.enc.yaml`).
- `docs/` – the files in this directory (start with `README.md`).

## Validating Changes Locally

```bash
cd SplatTopConfig
helm lint helm/splattop
helm template helm/splattop -f helm/splattop/values-dev.yaml > /tmp/dev.yaml
kubeconform -strict /tmp/dev.yaml
python scripts/validate_prometheus_config.py --values helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
trufflehog filesystem --no-update --only-verified --fail .
```

## Coordinating with App Repo

- Rebuild images only if you touch code/dockerfiles; config-only changes never trigger builds.
- Pull `component-tags.json` artifact from the latest app CI run when testing release bumps.
- Use `scripts/bump_release_version.py --dry-run` (app repo) to preview upcoming tags.

## Common Tasks

| Task | Command/Notes |
| ---- | ------------- |
| Update image digest | Edit `helm/splattop/values-<env>.yaml` (per service) + run `make validate` (TODO). |
| Add new service | Add Helm template, register in `values*.yaml`, update `argocd/applications/*.yaml`, run lint/template. |
| Rotate Age keys | Follow `docs/secrets-strategy.md`. |
| Check Argo status | `argocd app list`, `argocd app get splattop-prod`. |
| Rollback | See `docs/release-workflow.md#Rollbacks`. |

## Troubleshooting

- **App repo CI didn’t emit `component-tags.json`:** rerun workflow with `components` input or rebuild locally (`make docker-build COMPONENT=api`), then craft the JSON manually.
- **Argo stuck OutOfSync:** run `argocd app diff <app>`; if the diff matches your PR, sync after approval. If not, check for manual cluster drift (should be rare post-cutover).
- **Secrets won’t decrypt:** ensure `SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE` points to a file that contains the private key (copy from GitHub secret `SOPS_AGE_KEY` or the Argo `sops-age-key` secret) and that the file has Unix newlines (`dos2unix` sometimes needed).

## Editing Secrets

```bash
cd SplatTopConfig
printf '%s\n' "$SOPS_AGE_KEY" > ~/.config/sops/age/keys.txt  # contents from GH secret
export SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE=~/.config/sops/age/keys.txt
sops k8s/secrets.enc.yaml
```

- After editing, re-run `trufflehog filesystem --no-update --only-verified --fail .` to ensure nothing plaintext leaked.

Append tips here as you discover new sharp edges.

Commit message:

Refactor README and ArgoCD configurations for clarity and focus on production deployment. Removed development and staging references, updated sync policies, and streamlined documentation. Deleted unused ApplicationSet and development application manifests. Enhanced RBAC roles and project descriptions to reflect current state.

docs/developer-cheat-sheet.md, after:

# Developer Cheat Sheet

Quick reference for engineers touching the config repo after the split.

## Cloning & Layout

```bash
git clone git@github.com:SplatTop/SplatTop.git
git clone git@github.com:SplatTop/SplatTopConfig.git
tree -L 1 SplatTopConfig
```

- `helm/` – charts per service (api, react, celery, monitoring).
- `argocd/` – Applications, AppProjects.
- `k8s/` – legacy manifests (gradually retired or converted to Helm values) plus encrypted secrets (`*.enc.yaml`).
- `docs/` – the files in this directory (start with `README.md`).

## Validating Changes Locally

```bash
cd SplatTopConfig
helm lint helm/splattop
helm template helm/splattop -f helm/splattop/values-dev.yaml > /tmp/dev.yaml
kubeconform -strict /tmp/dev.yaml
python scripts/validate_prometheus_config.py --values helm/splattop/values-prod.yaml
trufflehog filesystem --no-update --only-verified --fail .
```

## Coordinating with App Repo

- Rebuild images only if you touch code/dockerfiles; config-only changes never trigger builds.
- Pull `component-tags.json` artifact from the latest app CI run when testing release bumps.
- Use `scripts/bump_release_version.py --dry-run` (app repo) to preview upcoming tags.

## Common Tasks

| Task | Command/Notes |
| ---- | ------------- |
| Update image digest | Edit `helm/splattop/values-<env>.yaml` (per service) + run `make validate` (TODO). |
| Add new service | Add Helm template, register in `values*.yaml`, update `argocd/applications/*.yaml`, run lint/template. |
| Rotate Age keys | Follow `docs/secrets-strategy.md`. |
| Check Argo status | `argocd app list`, `argocd app get splattop-prod`. |
| Rollback | See `docs/release-workflow.md#Rollbacks`. |

## Argo Access Controls

- Only the prod AppProject (`argocd/projects/splattop-project.yaml`) is managed here today; it targets the `default` + `monitoring` namespaces.
- `splattop-admins` is the sole write-capable group (role `proj:splattop:admin`). Everyone else falls back to `policy.default: role:readonly`.
- Prod syncs are manual and constrained to the Mon–Fri 15:00–02:00 UTC window. Outside that window the UI/CLI will reject sync attempts automatically.
- Argo reads this repo via the `argocd-repo-splattopconfig` deploy key secret. Update/rotate it via `kubectl -n argocd create secret generic ... --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -` and record the change in `docs/argo-operations.md`.

## Troubleshooting

- **App repo CI didn’t emit `component-tags.json`:** rerun workflow with `components` input or rebuild locally (`make docker-build COMPONENT=api`), then craft the JSON manually.
- **Argo stuck OutOfSync:** run `argocd app diff <app>`; if the diff matches your PR, sync after approval. If not, check for manual cluster drift (should be rare post-cutover).
- **Secrets won’t decrypt:** ensure `SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE` points to a file that contains the private key (copy from GitHub secret `SOPS_AGE_KEY` or the Argo `sops-age-key` secret) and that the file has Unix newlines (`dos2unix` sometimes needed).

## Editing Secrets

```bash
cd SplatTopConfig
printf '%s\n' "$SOPS_AGE_KEY" > ~/.config/sops/age/keys.txt  # contents from GH secret
export SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE=~/.config/sops/age/keys.txt
sops k8s/secrets.enc.yaml
```

- After editing, re-run `trufflehog filesystem --no-update --only-verified --fail .` to ensure nothing plaintext leaked.

Append tips here as you discover new sharp edges.
